# Agricultural-Monitoring


This is a  simple project on   Agriculture monitoring system using IoT and cloud platform.
As mentioned above we have decided to develop IoT based smart agriculture systems..Here we have used an array of  low power consuming sensors which  are able to sense accurate environmental  factors like  temperature ,humidity as well as the soil health.
 As a small agricultural farm may be  harvesting two or more crops at a time in two or more crop fields, the sensors will be located at each of the  fields.(for eg –suppose one farm is having an area which is divided into two parts  ,out of which one part of the land is being used for producing paddy while the other part is used for producing some other crop then the sensors (LIKE SOIL MOISTURE AND pH sensors)will be used at each  parts of the land ) ..The  sensors will be connected to a low power operated micro controller capable of receiving and sending  data wirelessly to the cloud.  The  data collected by the sensors will be directly uploaded in the  cloud from where it can be retrived for further processing.  At the farm end  there will be another micro controller which will be the main controlling unit of the whole unit.  For  each of the crops harvested there will be some optimum value of the parameters such as that of temp.soil  which will be pre-fed  into the  main  control unit. The  data retrived from the cloud will be compared with optimum levels set for each crop and  if the data collected deviate beyond  certain limit from optimum value  the system will initiate control actions such as turn on the motor or notify the user of increasing or decreasing pH level of the soil etc. 
 At the user end there will an web based apllicattion through which  the use rcan interact with the system . Through the web app the user can set the optimum values for the crops and check the status of the system such  as get  the real time paramters whenever required . Also when one  part of the field is not being used for any production the  user can shut down the sensors of those parts of the field which will  be help ful in power saving.
Also there will be  a water consumption  measuring system where. Through the web application the user will fix the amount of water to be used for each  field.if the amount water consumed exceeds the  defined value then  the user will receive  a notification.(Amount of water consumption may increase due to decreasing water holding capacity of the soil ).this will help the user to analyse the soil condition and take necessary actions.(This will also help to determine the motor working contions)
